README.md, before:

# git-open [![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/paulirish/git-open/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/paulirish/git-open)

Type `git open` to open the repo website (GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket) in your browser.

![Demo of git open in action](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39191/33507513-f60041ae-d6a9-11e7-985c-ab296d6a5b0f.gif)

## Usage

```sh
git open [remote-name] [branch-name]

git open --issue
```

(`git open` works with these [hosted repo providers](#supported-remote-repositories), `git open --issue` currently only works with GitHub, Visual Studio Team Services and Team Foundation Server)

### Examples

```sh
$ git open
# opens https://github.com/TRACKED_REMOTE_USER/CURRENT_REPO/tree/CURRENT_BRANCH

$ git open someremote
# opens https://github.com/PROVIDED_REMOTE_USER/CURRENT_REPO/tree/CURRENT_BRANCH

$ git open someremote somebranch
# opens https://github.com/PROVIDED_REMOTE_USER/CURRENT_REPO/tree/PROVIDED_BRANCH

$ git open --issue
# If branches use naming convention of issues/#123,
# opens https://github.com/TRACKED_REMOTE_USER/CURRENT_REPO/issues/123

$ git open --print
# prints https://github.com/TRACKED_REMOTE_USER/CURRENT_REPO/tree/CURRENT_BRANCH
```

## Installation

### Basic install

The preferred way of installation is to simply add the `git-open` script
somewhere into your path (e.g. add the directory to your `PATH` environment
or copy `git-open` into an existing included path like `/usr/local/bin`).

### Install via NPM:

```sh
npm install --global git-open
```

### Windows Powershell

Save git-open anywhere, say as ~/Documents/Scripts/git-open.sh and define
a function in your Powershell profile (see ~/Documents/WindowsPowerShell/profile.ps1) like this:

```sh
function git-open { cmd /c "C:\Program Files\Git\usr\bin\bash.exe" "~/Documents/Scripts/git-open.sh" }
Set-Alias -Name gop -Value git-open
```

### Windows with `cmd` terminal

Save the `git-open` script in any place accessible via your `%PATH%` environment var.

### ZSH

#### [Antigen](https://github.com/zsh-users/antigen)

Add `antigen bundle paulirish/git-open` to your `.zshrc` with your other bundle
commands.

Antigen will handle cloning the plugin for you automatically the next time you
start zsh, and periodically checking for updates to the git repository. You can
also add the plugin to a running zsh with `antigen bundle paulirish/git-open`
for testing before adding it to your `.zshrc`.

#### [Oh-My-Zsh](http://ohmyz.sh/)

1. `git clone https://github.com/paulirish/git-open.git $ZSH_CUSTOM/plugins/git-open`
1. Add `git-open` to your plugin list - edit `~/.zshrc` and change
   `plugins=(...)` to `plugins=(... git-open)`

#### [Zgen](https://github.com/tarjoilija/zgen)

Add `zgen load paulirish/git-open` to your .zshrc file in the same function
you're doing your other `zgen load` calls in. ZGen will take care of cloning
the repository the next time you run `zgen save`, and will also periodically
check for updates to the git repository.

#### [zplug](https://github.com/zplug/zplug)

`zplug "paulirish/git-open", as:plugin`

## Supported remote repositories

git-open can automatically guess the corresponding repository page for remotes
(default looks for `origin`) on the following hosts:

- github.com
- gist.github.com
- gitlab.com
- GitLab custom hosted (see below)
- bitbucket.org
- Atlassian Bitbucket Server (formerly _Atlassian Stash_)
- Visual Studio Team Services
- Team Foundation Server (on-premises)
- AWS Code Commit

## Configuration 

See the [man page](git-open.1.md) for more information on how to configure `git-open`.

## Alternative projects

See [hub](https://github.com/github/hub) for complete GitHub opening support.
It's the official GitHub project and provides `hub browse`.

[Homebrew has an alternate git-open](https://github.com/jeffreyiacono/git-open)
that only works with GitHub but can open user profile pages, too.

@[gerep has an alternate git-open](https://github.com/gerep/git-open) that
works with a few providers. Of note, it opens the default view for BitBucket
instead of the source view.

And, of course, [jasonmccreary's original gh](https://github.com/jasonmccreary/gh)
from which this plugin was forked.

## Thanks

[jasonmccreary](https://github.com/jasonmccreary/) did [the initial hard work](https://github.com/jasonmccreary/gh). Since then, [many contributors](https://github.com/paulirish/git-open/graphs/contributors) have submitted great PRs.

## Contributing & Development

Please provide examples of the URLs you are parsing with each PR.

### Testing:

You'll need to install [bats](https://github.com/sstephenson/bats#installing-bats-from-source), the Bash automated testing system. It's also available as `brew install bats`

```sh
git submodule update --init # pull in the assertion libraries

# Run the test suite once:
bats test  # or `npm run unit`

# Run it on every change with `entr`
brew install entr
npm run watch
```

## Related projects

- [`git recent`](https://github.com/paulirish/git-recent) - View your most recent git branches
- [`diff-so-fancy`](https://github.com/so-fancy/diff-so-fancy/) - Making the output of `git diff` so fancy

## License

Copyright Jason McCreary & Paul Irish. Licensed under MIT.
<http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>

## Changelog


- **2018-12-03** - [2.1.0 shipped](https://github.com/paulirish/git-open/releases/tag/v2.1.0). 
- **2017-12-01** - [2.0 shipped](https://github.com/paulirish/git-open/releases/tag/v2.0.0). Breaking change: [Gitlab configuration](https://github.com/paulirish/git-open#configuration) handled differently.
- **2017-12-01** - Configuration for custom remote added
- **2017-11-30** - Support for VSTS Added
- **2017-10-31** - `--issue` and `-h` added
- **2017-10-30** - Configuration for custom domains added
- **2017-10-30** - WSL support added
- **2017-06-16** - Introduced a test suite in BATS
- **2017-06-15** - Entire script rewritten and simplified by @dermagia
- **2016-07-23** - Readme: fix oh-my-zsh install instructions
- **2016-07-22** - 1.1.0 shipped. update and add linters for package.json, readme.
- **2016-07-11** - Readme formatting and installation instructions updated. Changelog started

Commit message:

Document flags to git-open

README.md, after:

# git-open [![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/paulirish/git-open/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/paulirish/git-open)

Type `git open` to open the repo website (GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket) in your browser.

![Demo of git open in action](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39191/33507513-f60041ae-d6a9-11e7-985c-ab296d6a5b0f.gif)

## Usage

```sh
git open [remote-name] [branch-name]
    # Open the page for this branch on the repo website

git open --commit
git open -c
   # Open the current commit in the repo website

git open --issue
git open -i
   # If this branch is named like issue/#123, this will open the corresponding
   # issue in the repo website

git open --print
git open -p
    # Only print the url at the terminal, but don't open it
```

(`git open` works with these [hosted repo providers](#supported-remote-repositories), `git open --issue` currently only works with GitHub, Visual Studio Team Services and Team Foundation Server)

### Examples

```sh
$ git open
# opens https://github.com/TRACKED_REMOTE_USER/CURRENT_REPO/tree/CURRENT_BRANCH

$ git open someremote
# opens https://github.com/PROVIDED_REMOTE_USER/CURRENT_REPO/tree/CURRENT_BRANCH

$ git open someremote somebranch
# opens https://github.com/PROVIDED_REMOTE_USER/CURRENT_REPO/tree/PROVIDED_BRANCH

$ git open --issue
# If branches use naming convention of issues/#123,
# opens https://github.com/TRACKED_REMOTE_USER/CURRENT_REPO/issues/123

$ git open --print
# prints https://github.com/TRACKED_REMOTE_USER/CURRENT_REPO/tree/CURRENT_BRANCH
```

## Installation

### Basic install

The preferred way of installation is to simply add the `git-open` script
somewhere into your path (e.g. add the directory to your `PATH` environment
or copy `git-open` into an existing included path like `/usr/local/bin`).

### Install via NPM:

```sh
npm install --global git-open
```

### Windows Powershell

Save git-open anywhere, say as ~/Documents/Scripts/git-open.sh and define
a function in your Powershell profile (see ~/Documents/WindowsPowerShell/profile.ps1) like this:

```sh
function git-open { cmd /c "C:\Program Files\Git\usr\bin\bash.exe" "~/Documents/Scripts/git-open.sh" }
Set-Alias -Name gop -Value git-open
```

### Windows with `cmd` terminal

Save the `git-open` script in any place accessible via your `%PATH%` environment var.

### ZSH

#### [Antigen](https://github.com/zsh-users/antigen)

Add `antigen bundle paulirish/git-open` to your `.zshrc` with your other bundle
commands.

Antigen will handle cloning the plugin for you automatically the next time you
start zsh, and periodically checking for updates to the git repository. You can
also add the plugin to a running zsh with `antigen bundle paulirish/git-open`
for testing before adding it to your `.zshrc`.

#### [Oh-My-Zsh](http://ohmyz.sh/)

1. `git clone https://github.com/paulirish/git-open.git $ZSH_CUSTOM/plugins/git-open`
1. Add `git-open` to your plugin list - edit `~/.zshrc` and change
   `plugins=(...)` to `plugins=(... git-open)`

#### [Zgen](https://github.com/tarjoilija/zgen)

Add `zgen load paulirish/git-open` to your .zshrc file in the same function
you're doing your other `zgen load` calls in. ZGen will take care of cloning
the repository the next time you run `zgen save`, and will also periodically
check for updates to the git repository.

#### [zplug](https://github.com/zplug/zplug)

`zplug "paulirish/git-open", as:plugin`

## Supported remote repositories

git-open can automatically guess the corresponding repository page for remotes
(default looks for `origin`) on the following hosts:

- github.com
- gist.github.com
- gitlab.com
- GitLab custom hosted (see below)
- bitbucket.org
- Atlassian Bitbucket Server (formerly _Atlassian Stash_)
- Visual Studio Team Services
- Team Foundation Server (on-premises)
- AWS Code Commit

## Configuration 

See the [man page](git-open.1.md) for more information on how to configure `git-open`.

## Alternative projects

See [hub](https://github.com/github/hub) for complete GitHub opening support.
It's the official GitHub project and provides `hub browse`.

[Homebrew has an alternate git-open](https://github.com/jeffreyiacono/git-open)
that only works with GitHub but can open user profile pages, too.

@[gerep has an alternate git-open](https://github.com/gerep/git-open) that
works with a few providers. Of note, it opens the default view for BitBucket
instead of the source view.

And, of course, [jasonmccreary's original gh](https://github.com/jasonmccreary/gh)
from which this plugin was forked.

## Thanks

[jasonmccreary](https://github.com/jasonmccreary/) did [the initial hard work](https://github.com/jasonmccreary/gh). Since then, [many contributors](https://github.com/paulirish/git-open/graphs/contributors) have submitted great PRs.

## Contributing & Development

Please provide examples of the URLs you are parsing with each PR.

### Testing:

You'll need to install [bats](https://github.com/sstephenson/bats#installing-bats-from-source), the Bash automated testing system. It's also available as `brew install bats`

```sh
git submodule update --init # pull in the assertion libraries

# Run the test suite once:
bats test  # or `npm run unit`

# Run it on every change with `entr`
brew install entr
npm run watch
```

## Related projects

- [`git recent`](https://github.com/paulirish/git-recent) - View your most recent git branches
- [`diff-so-fancy`](https://github.com/so-fancy/diff-so-fancy/) - Making the output of `git diff` so fancy

## License

Copyright Jason McCreary & Paul Irish. Licensed under MIT.
<http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>

## Changelog


- **2018-12-03** - [2.1.0 shipped](https://github.com/paulirish/git-open/releases/tag/v2.1.0). 
- **2017-12-01** - [2.0 shipped](https://github.com/paulirish/git-open/releases/tag/v2.0.0). Breaking change: [Gitlab configuration](https://github.com/paulirish/git-open#configuration) handled differently.
- **2017-12-01** - Configuration for custom remote added
- **2017-11-30** - Support for VSTS Added
- **2017-10-31** - `--issue` and `-h` added
- **2017-10-30** - Configuration for custom domains added
- **2017-10-30** - WSL support added
- **2017-06-16** - Introduced a test suite in BATS
- **2017-06-15** - Entire script rewritten and simplified by @dermagia
- **2016-07-23** - Readme: fix oh-my-zsh install instructions
- **2016-07-22** - 1.1.0 shipped. update and add linters for package.json, readme.
- **2016-07-11** - Readme formatting and installation instructions updated. Changelog started
